[DISCLAIMER AUDIO]
[SOFT PIANO MUSIC]
>> In Solitude Farm, we've shown
that by focusing on local food,
we directly address the
problems that are created
by an industrialized agriculture
on a nutritional level,
on an ecological level,
on a social level,
on a cultural level, and thus
on an economic level as well.
Welcome to Solitude Farm.
Everything in Solitude
Farm starts with the soil.
So, in these fields, we have
beds and trenches and a bed
and a trench and a bed and a
trench all over the gardens.
In these trenches, we have
placed all this organic matter,
this bioresource--
sticks, grasses, weeds,
all sorts of organic matter
that's our profit, not
financial but nutritional.
And it's all decomposing in here
into a very, very diverse soil
ecology, millions
of microorganisms,
molds, bacterias, insects,
earthworms, small animals.
The life in the soil
is the fertility.
So the more you can just nurture
this and return organic matter,
the better the soil
is going to be.
It's a vessel.
You want to drink
water, you need
a vessel to put the water in.
This is a vessel in which we
can return organic matter.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[LAUGHTER]
[NON-ENGLISH CHATTER]
When the soil is
well, the Mother Earth
will offer us all these
diversity of nutrition
in the form of the
flowers and roots
and weeds and fruits
and grains and oilseeds,
and all these things
that we eat in Solitude.
We've identified about 90 that
we consume here on the farm.
And from there,
community will naturally
come together because it's
such an essential need.
The main problem that we
face in the world today
is industrialized agriculture
has defined the nutritional
profile of our society.
It's conned us into believing
that this big fat eggplant is
good food.
But in India, absolutely
sure, some farmers
are injecting chemicals
into the eggplants.
It's a known fact
that people have
lost a relationship with
where their food comes from.
The society that doesn't know
where its food comes from
is a society without culture.
And humanity without
culture will perish.
So there's our key point--
that we lost something
essential to our humanity
because we lost a relationship
with where our food comes from,
as a symptom of us losing
a relationship with nature,
which thus means a
relationship with ourselves.
So these are very
deep questions.
They're not solved by zone one,
zone two, three permaculture
design plan that is
beautiful and relevant.
But we have to look,
in a very deep way,
at trying to bring our
communities together
around this subject.
If we connect community
to food, all of a sudden,
our food has a completely
different meaning.
We change the paradigm of
what food means and its value.
[CROWS CAWING]
The nature is a better
designer than we are.
So there's this
movement that I'm
perceiving with myself
and the gardens,
and it's to try and allow
nature to show us the design.
Of course, we've
got, in this field,
bananas at a certain distance.
If we put them
very close, there's
going to be no light left.
And then we've got--
there's some thought has gone
into the long black peppers
underneath the fruit
trees because it
will grow in the shade.
But more and more,
we try and move
away from this idea of
having a few crops, even
the intercropping, but
much more diversity
and trying to use everything.
Like this chicken
spinach, they grow
in every single person's
garden in Auroville,
and yet it's very little used.
Very high in vitamins.
You can use it in salads.
You can use it in green
smoothies, in vegan ice cream,
in curries, in vegetable dishes.
It's such a versatile food
source, and yet it's not valued.
And it's so easy to grow.
This is how you grow it.
You just break a stem.
You make yourself a
little hole in the ground.
Pop it in sideways like that.
Cover it with Earth
and it'll grow.
There's nothing much
more to do than that.
So if you take
this green papaya,
this can grow in every single
person's garden in Auroville.
It's so easy to grow.
If we treat this like a carrot
and peel it and grate it,
you have a beautiful
vegetable that can be cooked.
It can be eaten raw and
it can be made into soups.
It can be used in so
many diverse ways.
If this is used just once a week
by a community like Auroville
of say 2 to 3,000 people,
one part of our nutrition is
covered.
It has medicinal value.
It has high nutritional value.
It has no food miles.
This is the
permaculture that I'm
trying to show people,
the very direct solution
for our immediate needs, which
is nutritional primarily.
Nature is always surprising
me, and that's definitely
a guide for me.
So designs and ideas that we
think we know better than nature
have a value, but nature
knows so much more than us.
And the more you
live with fields
and the more you try and negate
this idea that you can do better
than nature, the more
surprises and the more depth
there is with your relationship
with the food growing around
you.
The rosella is a volunteer crop.
It's growing all over
the farm on its own.
These tender leaves,
we use in a salad.
We use them in smoothies.
We can cook a curry with them.
Later on, it'll give a flower,
which you can make a syrup with.
After the flour,
there's the fruit,
that you can make a
different type of juice with.
And you can make a jam with it.
And you can dry it so you can
use it throughout the year.
So it's such a wonderful plant.
It grows like a weed,
literally, everywhere.
It's not that these
plants are ignored.
It's just that-- ignored means
that you would know about them.
It's just that they're not--
there's not this understanding.
Food is, oh, today,
I want to eat this.
I go to the shop and I
buy it, and that's that.
There is not this
relationship with the land.
Just by using these
simple things,
it's going to
uplift our society.
We've demonstrated
that at Solitude.
There's no doubt about it.
There's people coming
every day to eat lunch.
There's people
coming more and more
to get a basket of
fruit and vegetables.
People who don't know how
to use those vegetables,
but they recognize that
they can learn with us.
>> I'm explaining to you.
>> So this is the CSA project.
So, for example, this guy
has ordered a basket with us.
And today, in his basket,
he's going to get spinach.
He's going to get basil.
He gets a papaya.
He gets banana, a
few soared beans.
So introducing a CSA basket
service to rural India
could have a huge impact.
It would be cheaper for people.
It would give a
diverse nutrition
for the local communities.
And the farmer also would be
getting an advance payment
on a weekly basis
or a monthly basis,
however he organized it
for the crops he's growing.
It would bring people
back to honoring
their traditional
foods, reinvigorating
the use of traditional crops.
If the farmer is making
20 baskets on Monday
and 20 baskets on
Friday, and in the week,
the crops are
growing back again,
financially, he could
really be lifted up
far away from the poverty
that normal smallholding
farmer is suffering in
India, only by looking
into his own culture.
[SOFT MUSIC]
This is ragi.
Ragi is a finger millet.
It's the foundation
of Indian agriculture,
and yet so few people
eat it these days.
So there is a movement
in the country.
It's gaining momentum,
but it's kind of small.
But to reintroduce these dry
land, highly nutritious crops
of the millet.
There are many millets in India.
And this ragi is
part of a rotation
that we have in these fields,
which is basically millets,
rice, vegetables, lentils.
It's a four-crop rotation.
It's only by welcoming
and understanding
what crops really suit our
bioregion that we will find
our way through permaculture.
From the kindergarten,
you're told what to do.
You're told what to study.
You're told when to
go to do pee pee.
You're told when
to do this class.
And then it goes on until PhD,
and you're told, this is good,
that's not good.
Then we work for some corporate,
for the man, for all our lives.
And we spend our savings
on bypass surgery.
So something's wrong.
And we lost the capacity
to question ourselves.
So what we're trying
to show in Solitude
is we're trying to
show that road back
to nature, that road
back to ourselves.
It's not about
cultivation of crops.
It's about the cultivation
of the human soul.
[NON-ENGLISH CHATTER]
Having the cafe on
the farm has been
so instrumental to discovering
all these riches around
us, the 90 different crops
that grow in this field.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
This is Manjula.
Manjula helps in the
kitchen and she's
in charge of all the salads,
the taboulah. the raw vegan
spaghetti, all the dishes
that we knock up just by using
all these different herbs.
So now, she's just
harvesting a few
of these very tender tamarind
leaves that we add to a salad.
We add to-- And if you look
in a little place like this,
this is just a typical
little corner of the farm.
You've got-- I don't know
where this has come from,
but there's a bit of
basil on the bottom.
Then there's the soursop,
which is the anti-cancer tree,
that you make an
absolutely wonderful tisane
with these leaves.
The fruit is--
[NON-ENGLISH] The
fruit is really divine.
It's a taste between a mix
of a guava and a pineapple.
So there's a bit of that.
There's a bit of basil in here.
There's passion fruit growing.
And in here, there's a yam
that's coming up on a tapioca.
And there's a banana just here.
And then there's the tamarind.
And there's-- what
design shall I do?
It happens like
this in many places.
Things take their own
position and their own play.
The main thing is
how to manage water
and how to keep returning
organic matter to the soil.
[SOFT PIANO MUSIC]